## Competitors

* __Instagram:__ Instagram is a social media platform, with a focus on photo and video sharing. It is often used by clubs to post information about upcoming events and recruitment ads to students who follow the club on the app. However, the difference between Instagram and our product is that while Instagram is made for the general public, our product is made specifically for UTSC students, so it has more functionality targeted to connecting students with UTSC clubs. Consequently, Instagram lacks in two main areas: 1) The ability for clubs to promote their activities to students who are not aware of the club or do not use Instagram often; 2) The ability for new students to discover new UTSC extracurriculars on the app. 

* __[Student Organization Portal - University of Toronto](https://sop.utoronto.ca/)__: This is a website containing descriptions and contact information for all the registered clubs at U of T. This website also allows you to view upcoming club events and club hiring opportunities. However, the clubs listings are for all three U of T campuses, and most of the events listed are by clubs at St. George. Additionally, while students are able to filter through clubs on the site by areas of interest, they are unable to filter through upcoming events. All in all, this website is more geared towards providing students with a comprehensive database of clubs at U of T, without very much personalization or additional features to interact with the clubs directly on the site.

* __[UTSC Club Hub](https://www.acadiate.com/ee/utscclubhub/lobby)__: This website is similar to the one above, but is specifically meant for UTSC. However, it has very outdated, containing events from previous years, and has very few clubs listed. The UI is also very poor and lacks many features.

* __[UTSC Student Experience](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.oohlala.utsc)__: This is a mobile app where you can find upcoming events, groups, clubs, and services at UTSC. The app also contains productivity features such as a calender and due date trackers. The app itself only provides a general overview of the various aspects of the UTSC student experience, and as a result, it lack detail and features for connecting students to clubs. Additionally, very few clubs appear under "Groups & Clubs", with only a couple academic associations displayed and no recreational clubs. Furthermore, the majority of the events posted on the app are by the UTSC Academic Advising & Career Centre rather than clubs and student groups, with little to no features for filtering club and event search results.

## How is your product different?

The key difference between our product and the ones listed above is that UTSC ClubHouse is specifically designed to connect U of T students with UTSC clubs. While these social platforms are able to perform certain functionalities, they are not very streamlined for facilitating club involvement. Our product is meant to be a centralized platform, "social media for UTSC clubs," which makes it easier to discover clubs and events, and to manage one's club activities, by providing users with a personalized selection of clubs/events, built-in club sign up and hiring, and in-app notifications.

Our competitors build their applications with different purposes in mind. Both the Student Organization Portal and UTSC Student Experience were built with providing students with detailed information rather than connectivity and interaction since their main focus was not on clubs but making complete UTSC platforms. With this reason they were not able to deliver a lot of features for people who are more involved in club activities. 

In general, our product is best suited for U of T students who are actively involved with UTSC's extracurriculars, or are looking to discover clubs and/or events that align with their interests. UTSC ClubHouse provides a great starting point for new students to get involved with the UTSC community, and a great space for current club leaders to reach out and connect with other students at the school who share similar goals and interests.